simple steps over print two point oh the
spot color screen printing game-changer
from advanced t-shirts calm in this
session going take a look at
understanding over printing and how it
can benefit our business and our screen
printing process over printing is a
process of blending spot colors and
screen printed create additional colors
tints and shades working with just a few
colors actually say it's kind of like
stepping outside the box of flat color
printing and into shaded or blended
printing based on the limited number of
spot colors are typically working with
the screen printers I've set up some
triangles here as examples of some of
the benefits and also is in a way to
look at some of the basics of
understanding overprinting over here
I've got a triangle with the colors red
yellow and black as flat spot colors
next that I've got the color yellow with
a tint of red and a tint of black now
here in the third triangle I've taken
the yellow and the tint of red and a
tint of black and I've over printed
those and you can right click on these
and actually see that over printing is
enabled if you want to view or print you
have to go to view and Corel and set
your view to simulate over prints but I
think you can see here we've gone from
just a flat red yellow and black print
into multi color printing with tints and
over printing so we're expanding the
number of colors that we can print based
on just the colors red yellow and black
very important in screen printing here
I've got the color yellow with blue and
we've got just a little tint of blue
here and then we've got a stronger tint
of that here you can see we get a gray
from that and also we get what looks
like some shading for our yellow so we
can start to create our graphics even
though they're just two colors so they
look like they have some shading and
highlighting with them or the addition
of depth in the design then we've got
some different examples here with two
and three colors / printing and
strategic screen printing color managed
benefits and this is really important
you're working with over printing
automated accurately you're going to
have some strategic benefits first of
all you're going to be able to produce
over prints that give you the strategic
ability to maximize your color plane
results when printing with just two or
three spot colors we're printing also
gives you the strategic ability to print
jobs that look like they have 10 or more
colors even though you're praying with
just a few colors over printing can also
give you a competitive advantage when
pricing or quoting jobs if a customer
walks into your shop with a design that
has say brown orange yellow red and
black you can look at that if you
understand over printing in quote that
is a three-color job if your competition
doesn't understand over printing and the
customer goes to your competitor and
they quote it as a five color job well I
think we know who's going to get the job
orphan also gives you the really adds
shading and highlighting to your
graphics without adding additional
colors to the design this gives you the
ability to create designs that have
depth or more pop for the screen
printing design process I have some
graphics here set up as examples and
here we have in elementary school design
actually has 22 colors your competition
that's not aware of our printing might
look at this encoded as a seven color
simulated process job with a 100-dollar
color separation feed you understanding
overprinting would look at this job and
quote it as a three-color job with no
separation fee and be able to set up
perfect separations in about five
minutes beneath this i have the wildcats
football design which is just a flat
design using the Wildcat colors golden
yellow red and also some black for
definition the flat print design your
competition designs flat colors with
Wildcat red and golden yellow + black
and flash and quotes a four color print
but you understanding over print with
the right tools take the same design of
this painting style of design and you
start add shading and highlighting
different colors to it and you quoted as
a three-color job you offer a better
design using just the Wildcats red and
golden yellow or actually the school
colors plus black and you quote three
colors with
design once again you're in a strategic
advantage because you have overplaying
tools and you understand how it works
really it just comes down to being able
to manage the colors you know if you
look at the competition it doesn't
understand overprinting their color
palette for the Wildcat design is red
black flashing golden yellow your
overprint palette contains all of these
different colors and yet it's only a
three color print so I think you can see
that overprinting is the strategic color
game changer and in this series we're
going to go through working with simple
steps over print and how you can come to
a place where you can print designs that
look like they have many different
colors or a lot of shading and
highlighting but yet you're just working
with two or three or four spot colors so
go ahead and wrap here and we'll
continue in our next session